.TH reboot 8 "October 2006" "Upstart"
.\"
.SH NAME
reboot, halt, poweroff \- reboot or stop the system
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBreboot\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]...

\fBhalt\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]...

\fBpoweroff\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]...
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
These utilities allow a system administrator to
.BR reboot ", " halt " or " poweroff
the system.

When called without the
.I -f
option, they simply invokes
.BR shutdown (8)
with the appropriate arguments.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -f
Does not invoke
.BR shutdown (8)
and instead performs the actual action you would expect from the name.
This is generally used from the event handler itself.
.\"
.TP
.BR -n
Does not call
.BR sync (2)
before performing the reboot; this could result in data loss.  On Linux,
this probably has no effect as the kernel flushes all write buffers before
shutting down.
.\"
.TP
.BR -h
Iterates
.I /proc/ide
to find all IDE disk drives and requests that they enter a standby mode
before shutting down.  On Linux, this is unnecessary as the kernel will do
this anyway.
.\"
.TP
.BR -i
Iterates configured network interfaces and brings them down before shutting
down.  On Linux, this is unnecessary as the kernel will do this anyway.
.\"
.TP
.BR -p
Instructs the
.B halt
command to instead behave as
.BR poweroff .
.\"
.SH NOTES
This tool is provided for compatibility with the traditional System V
.BR init (8).
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Scott James Remnant.
.\"
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at https://launchpad.net/products/upstart/+bugs
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006 Canonical Ltd.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR shutdown (8)
.BR telinit (8)
