.TH shutdown 8 "October 2006" "Upstart"
.\"
.SH NAME
shutdown \- bring the system down
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBshutdown\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... \fITIME\fR [\fIMESSAGE\fR]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B shutdown
arranges for the system to be brought down in a safe way.  All logged-in
users are notified that the system is going down and, within the last
five minutes of
.IR TIME ,
new logins are prevented.

.I TIME
may have different formats, the most common is simply the word
.RI ' now '
which will bring the system down immediately.  Other valid formats are
.IR +m ,
where
.I m
is the number of minutes to wait until shutting down and
.I hh:mm
which specifies the time on the 24hr clock.

Once
.I TIME
has elapsed,
.B shutdown
sends a request to the
.BR init (8)
daemon to bring the system down,
.BR init (8)
will first generate the
.I shutdown
event and once that has been processed will generate a second event
specified by the
.IR -r " or " -h
options to
.BR shutdown .
If no options are given, the
.I maintenance
event is sent.

To see what actions are actually taken, examine the jobs in
.IR /etc/event.d .
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -r
Requests that the system be rebooted after it has been brought down.
.BR init (8)
will generate the
.I reboot
event once the
.I shutdown
event has been processed.
.\"
.TP
.BR -h
Requests that the system be either halted or powered off after it has been
brought down, with the choice as to which left up to the system.
.BR init (8)
will generate the
.I halt
event once the
.I shutdown
event has been processed.
.\"
.TP
.BR -H
Requests that the system be halted after it has been brought down.
.BR init (8)
will generate the
.I system-halt
event once the
.I shutdown
event has been processed.
.\"
.TP
.BR -P
Requests that the system be powered off after it has been brought down.
.BR init (8)
will generate the
.I power-off
event once the
.I shutdown
event has been processed.
.\"
.TP
.BR -c
Cancels a running shutdown.
.I TIME
is not specified with this option, the first argument is
.I MESSAGE.
.\"
.TP
.BR -k
Only send out the warning messages and disable logins, do not actually
bring the system down.
.\"
.SH NOTES
This tool is provided for compatibility with the traditional System V
.BR init (8).
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Scott James Remnant.
.\"
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at https://launchpad.net/products/upstart/+bugs
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006 Canonical Ltd.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR init (8)
.BR telinit (8)
