.TH initctl2dot 8 2013-03-22 "Upstart"
.\"
.SH NAME
initctl2dot \- manual page for initctl2dot
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B initctl2dot
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Convert
.BR initctl (8)
output to GraphViz
.BR dot (1)
format.

With no options,
.BR initctl (8)
will be invoked automatically and the output written to file
\fIupstart.dot\fP. If run from within an Upstart user session, unless
.B \-\-system
is specified, the data generated will be for the user session.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-f\fP \fIINFILE\fP , \fP\-\-infile\fP=\fIINFILE\fP
File to read
.BR initctl (8)
output from ("initctl show-config -e"). If not specified,
.BR initctl (8)
will be run automatically.
.TP
.B \-h
Display usage statement.
.TP
\fB\-r\fP \fIRESTRICTIONS\fP , \fP\-\-restrict-to-jobs\fP=\fIRESTRICTIONS\fP
Limit display of
.B start on
and
.B stop on
conditions to comma-separated list of jobs.
.TP
\fB\-w\fP \fIOUTFILE\fP , \fP\-\-outfile\fP=\fIOUTFILE\fP
File to write output to.
.TP
\fB\-\-color-emits\fP=\fICOLOR_EMITS\fP
Specify color for 'emits' lines.
.TP
\fB\-\-color-start-on\fP=\fICOLOR_START_ON\fP
Specify color for 'start on' lines.
.TP
\fB\-\-color-stop-on\fP=\fICOLOR_STOP_ON\fP
Specify color for 'stop on' lines.
.TP
\fB\-\-color-event\fP=\fICOLOR_EVENT\fP
Specify color for event boxes.
.TP
\fB\-\-color-text\fP=\fICOLOR_TEXT\fP
Specify color for summary text.
.TP
\fB\-\-color-bg\fP=\fICOLOR_BG\fP
Specify background color for diagram.
.TP
\fB\-\-color-event-text\fP=\fICOLOR_EVENT_TEXT\fP
Specify color for text in event boxes.
.TP
\fB\-\-color-job-text\fP=\fICOLOR_JOB_TEXT\fP
Specify color for text in job boxes.
.TP
\fB\-\-color-job\fP=\fICOLOR_JOB\fP
Specify color for job boxes.
.TP
\fB\-\-system\fP
Connect to the Upstart system session.
.TP
\fB\-\-user\fP
Connect to the Upstart user session.
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Written by James Hunt
.RB < james.hunt@ubuntu.com >
.\"
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at
.RB < https://launchpad.net/upstart/+bugs >
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2011 Canonical Ltd.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR init (8)
.BR initctl (8)
