.TH upstart\-monitor 8 2013-03-13 upstart
.\"
.SH NAME
upstart\-monitor \- Display system and session Upstart events
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B upstart\-monitor
.RI [ OPTIONS ]...
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B upstart\-monitor
displays Upstart system events or Upstart session events using either a
command-line or graphical interface.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.\"
.TP
.BR \-d " \fIdestination\fP" " , " \-\-destination=\fIdestination\fP
Specify the endpoint to connect to. Valid destinations are
.IR session\-socket ", "
.IR session\-bus ", "
.IR system\-socket " and "
.IR system-bus "."
.\"
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show brief usage summary.
.\"
.TP
.BR \-n " , " \-\-no-gui
Run in command-line mode.
.\"
.TP
.BR \-s " , " \-\-separator
Specify alternate field separator to use for command-line output
(default is a single tab character).
.\"
.SH NOTES
.\"
.IP \(bu 4
By default,
.B upstart\-monitor
will attempt to start in a graphical mode unless
.B \-\-no\-gui
is specified. However, if it is unable to display a graphical interface,
it will display a warning message and automatically revert to the
command-line interface.
.\"
.IP \(bu 4
When no command-line option (that affects the destination) is specified,
.B upstart\-monitor
will attempt to connect to the Session Init (destination
\fIsession\-socket\fR) and display session events. In this mode, it
will display both session events
.I and
system events, assuming the
.BR upstart-event-bridge (8)
is running.

If invoked with no arguments from within a non-Upstart session
environment it will attempt to connect to Upstart running as process ID
1 (destination \fIsystem\-bus\fR) and will only display system events.
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Written by James Hunt
.RB < james.hunt@ubuntu.com >
.\"
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at 
.RB < https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/upstart/+bugs >
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2013 Canonical Ltd.
.PP
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR init (5)
.BR init (8)
.BR upstart-events (7)
.BR upstart-event-bridge (8)
