.TH upstart\-text\-bridge 8 2013-07-23 upstart
.\"
.SH NAME
upstart\-text\-bridge \- Bridge between Upstart and a client socket
connection.
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B upstart\-text\-bridge
.RI [ OPTIONS ]...
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B upstart\-text\-bridge
listens on a socket for name=value pairs and creates
.BR init (8)
events for them.

The socket can be either an internet socket (IPv4 or IPv6) or a local
unix domain socket (named or abstract).
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.\"
.TP
.B \-\-address \fIaddress\fP
Specify IPv4 or IPv6 address to listen on.
.\"
.TP
.B \-\-daemon
Detach and run in the background.
.\"
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Enable debugging output.
.\"
.TP
.B \-\-event \fIevent\fP
Specify name of event to emit on receipt of a name=value pair.
.\"
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show brief usage summary.
.\"
.TP
.B \-\-path \fIpath\fP
Specify path for local/abstract socket to listen on. If the first byte of
.I path
is an \(aq\fI@\fP\(aq, the socket will be created as an abstract socket.
.\"
.TP
.B \-\-port \fIport\fP
Specify port number to use.
.\"
.TP
.B \-\-socket\-type \fIsocket\fP
Specify type of socket to listen on. Supported types are
.I inet
for IPv4,
.I inet6
for IPv6 and 
.I unix
for local unix domain sockets.
.\"
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output.
.\"
.SH EVENT DETAILS

A number of environment variables are added automatically to the event
to be emitted, with the name=value pair being added as the last variable.
.P
For
.I inet
and
.I inet6
type sockets, the variables added before the name=value pair are:
.IP \(bu 4
SOCKET_TYPE=\fISOCKET_TYPE\fP
.IP \(bu 4
ADDRESS=\fIADDRESS\fP
.IP \(bu 4
PORT=\fIPORT\fP
.P
For
.I unix
type sockets, the variables added before the name=value pair are:
.IP \(bu 4
SOCKET_TYPE=\fISOCKET_TYPE\fP
.IP \(bu 4
PATH=\fIPATH\fP
.P
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP "upstart\-text\-bridge \-\-event=foo \-\-socket\-type=inet \-\-address=127.0.0.1 \-\-port=8765" 0.4i
Listen on address 127.0.0.1 port 8765 and when a name=value pair is
read, emit an event of the form:

.RS
.nf
foo SOCKET_TYPE=inet ADDRESS=127.0.0.1 PORT=8765 name=value
.fi
.RE
.IP "upstart\-text\-bridge \-\-event=bar \-\-socket\-type=unix \-\-path=/var/foo/bar" 0.4i
Listen on local socket
.I /var/foo/bar
and when a name=value pair is read, emit an event of the form:

.RS
.nf
bar SOCKET_TYPE=unix PATH=/var/foo/bar name=value
.fi
.RE
.\"
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 4
If a non-abstract local socket is specified, all path elements except
for the last must already exist before the bridge starts.
.\"
.SH LIMITATIONS

.IP \(bu 4
Only a single client connection is serviced at any one time.
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Written by James Hunt
.RB < james.hunt@canonical.com >
.\"
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at 
.RB < https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/upstart/+bugs >
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2013 Canonical Ltd.
.PP
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR init (5)
.BR init (8)
